[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is "Mystery Teachings."
When we're in the darkness,
how do we find the light?
Well, the keys to this
are holding onto hope
and connecting to
the light within
to guide us out of the darkness
and into the light of day.
Our next steps on
the hero's journey
help us to find
this light, as we
begin to now see the light
at the end of the tunnel.
In this episode, we
take a deeper dive
into the archetypes of
the star and the moon.
These are the
archetypal principles
of revelation and organization.
The star is a
symbol of unveiling.
She actually brings us a
disclosure and discovery
of our connection to
the greater cosmos,
while the moon represents
evolution at a physical level,
as well as within
our unconscious,
where ourselves, our DNA, and
our mind actually reorganize.
This is so that we may
integrate the magical body
that we've been building, and
bring it into the physical.
This prepares us to then more
fully embody our true self
in this life.
We're in the final stretch
of this journey that moves us
through the last three
stages of alchemy,
which are fermentation,
distillation, and coagulation.
These stages refine
our soul and bring us
to spiritual attainment.
These are essential
stages, as we
prepare for the
culmination of this journey
towards self-actualization
and mastery.
Our next step on the hero's
journey brings us to the star.
Now, if we were to consider
the tower as the birth
canal of the rebirthing
process we've been in,
the star is the new
self that is born.
And like a child, she
comes naked to the world.
[BABY YAWNING]
And in her purity, she provides
us guidance, hope, and optimism
after the cataclysmic events
of the devil in the tower.
The grace that's offered
here is that when
we submit to the
divine, it really
helps us to pierce the darkness,
and it shines light upon us.
So the star is the
light of hope helping
us to come out of the
darkness and bring us all
the way through that process.
We're still in the
fermentation stage here,
but at least now
there's more light.
And this gives us
the strength that we
need to recreate our
foundation and move forward
with our journey.
So the star marks the end of the
fermentation stage of alchemy,
and she is bringing us
this revelation of light.
Now, here the light is
just a glimmer of hope
that we're now emerging from
that dark night of the soul,
and that our situation
is improving.
Now, the numerology of
a star is the number 17,
and 17 represents harmony,
spirituality, love, and peace,
and it brings us the ability to
conquer failed relationships.
1 and 7 form this
number, showing us
that it has a lot to do with
the self-consciousness, which
is represented by the
magician, or number 1,
as well as being
receptive to divine
will, which is what we see
with number 7 and the chariot.
And the number 7 is also
about victory and achievement.
Now, in addition, when
we add the 1 plus the 0
we get 8, which brings
us to the strength key.
Now, recall that
the strength key
was about personal
trials that test
our ability to tame
our animal nature
and find harmony
within ourselves,
while the star is, therefore,
the same woman that we see
in strength, only now she's
emerging from her trial
and has successfully learned
how to harmonize polarities.
Let's take a look at the imagery
and symbolism of this card.
Now, as we look at the
star, we see a naked woman
kneeling over a pool.
And she's pouring out
water from two pitchers.
One of them is
poured into the pool,
while the other is
poured onto the land.
Her foot seems as if it's
standing on or above the water,
while her left knee is
supported by solid Earth.
Now, in the night sky
is lit by eight stars,
and they're all
eight-pointed stars.
And in the midst of them
is a large central star,
which hovers right
above her head.
Now, in the background,
we see also a tree
and a red bird upon it.
And all of this is perched
up on a hill behind her.
And then off in the distance,
we see the mountain of the self.
Now, this large central
star that is yellow,
it's radiating cosmic energy.
And this light comes
from a distant sun
somewhere beyond
our solar system.
It's symbolic of life power,
which is energizing principle
of the entire universe.
It's the quintessence
of the universe.
And this light is sent to us
from the source through what we
call the great
central sun, which
this large star represents.
And then from
there, it flows out
to the various stars,
the various galaxies.
And ultimately, it comes
to us here on Earth
by way of those other stars.
So the essential power
behind this energy
that's transmitted
to us from the stars
originates in the
source or in the spirit.
And this tells us that our link
to connecting back to spirit
also involves connecting to the
galaxy, the stars, which are
the transmitters of this light.
So this eight-pointed
star and its energy
is also related to the
wheel of fortune in key 10,
which has eight spokes.
It also relates to
the spirit wheel
that we see embroidered
on the fool's tunic.
Now, around that
central star, we
see seven other smaller
stars that share
in this cosmic energy.
But these refer now to
the seven ancient planets,
or what we call the
fixed stars of astrology.
They also, though, relate
to the seven interior stars,
which we call our chakras.
And this hints that working
with the opening of our chakras
through practices like
breath work and visualization
and meditation really
helps us to connect
with this radiant cosmic energy
that also flows inside of us.
And it's important
that we do this gently
and in a balanced
and controlled way.
Now, all seven of these
stars are energized
by that main central star.
Now, since the number eight also
relates to the infinity sign,
these eight stars represent
infinite possibilities
that appear after
the tower has fallen.
There's a whole world
of possibilities
now available to us of
what we're going to create.
The naked woman
shown in this card
is the embodiment
of the goddess.
She is nature herself,
who is now unveiled.
Now, in different
ways, she corresponds
to the high priestess,
the empress, and strength.
She's also the
Egyptian goddess, Isis,
but she's now Isis unveiled.
And this shows us
that the cosmic mind
stuff that creates
all matter and now
pours through the vessels of
our purified consciousness
into what we want to create.
Now, images of
nakedness are symbolic
of what we would say
the naked truth, which
is stripped of our projections.
True reality is now laid
bare and revealed to us.
There is no more obscurity.
Now, from the star's
body position,
we see that the Earth
supports her weight,
but she's also balancing
herself by the water.
And yet, her foot hovers
or is just above the water.
And this is different from what
we see in the temperance key,
where the angel's
foot is in the water.
Now, why does temperance
have his foot in the water,
while the star has
her foot on the water?
Well, temperance is dealing
with polarities still.
He's actively mixing
them together.
The star's resting most of her
weight on the physical Earth,
but she's using the
water which represents
the inner life for balance.
This suggests that the
inner can explain the outer,
and we connect with our outer
life through meditation.
So we need to meditate
in order to really
figure out what's
going on, or to make
sense of our outer life.
So meditation is a key
activity in the star card.
The water being poured
out of the pitchers
represents how we use
our consciousness.
And there's two
pitchers, so this
means that there's two
ways that we can direct
the flow of consciousness--
either towards the inner,
which is pouring the water
into the pool, or
towards the outer, which
is pouring it onto the land.
This is the same as saying,
we can direct our attention
towards spirits or towards
the physical world.
Now, these two
functions are sometimes
referred to as higher
mind and lower mind.
Now, the water coming from the
base that pours into the pool
symbolizes what happens
when we meditate.
When we consciously connect
with the universal mind which
this pool represents, it elicits
a response from the source,
and we can see this
response through the ripples
on the pond.
Now, in the background,
the image of the tree
usually refers to the Tree
of Life from Kabbalah.
And the branches and
trunk of this tree
are also said to symbolize the
brain and the spinal column.
And the stream of consciousness
and the radiant light
of the star card is running
through our nervous system
and our brain, as
well as our chakras.
Now, perched on top of
this tree is the red bird,
and it's an ancient Egyptian
symbol for the soul.
Now, some relate this
bird to an ibis, which
is connected to the God Thoth.
But the bird, in general,
represents the ascension
of our soul to
the supernal realm
at the top of the tree of life.
And of course, the
mountain in the background
is the same one that
we saw in the lovers
card and the
strength card, and it
represents that mountain
of inner attainment,
or the great work.
And this is something that
we're all climbing together,
and the route that we travel
is the path to liberation.
And when we get to the top we
will unite with our true self.
So what's the star
trying to teach us?
Well, her key lessons have to
do with meditation, revelation,
and cosmic connection.
The water flowing
out onto the land
also represents the outward
focus of our five senses.
Notice how there's five
streams as that water pours out
onto the land.
Now, in a non-meditative state,
in our regular waking state,
there is a continual
flow of stimulus
that comes to us
from the outer world.
And when we meditate in the
ways that are indicated here
by the star card,
we can actually
generate a reverse
flow and begin
to see the outer
world but from within.
This changes how and
what we perceive.
So our five senses
actually become
linked to our
intuitive faculties,
and when we're not
distracted by outer stimuli,
then our senses can
actually become tools
for directly perceiving
true reality.
So the star is teaching
us to use meditation
to develop intuition,
as well as to dip
into the hidden side of life,
and to develop the ability
to be steady in our mental
focus and concentration.
Now, meditation is the only
safe regenerative practice
that refines and directs
this cosmic energy that
runs through our bodies,
which is also something
we call the kundalini
energy, which relates back
to the strength card.
Now, when we succeed in
meditation we feel better.
We have more light.
We receive inspiration.
Our creativity draws
from these waters
of our inner depth
and our subconscious,
and this brings revelation.
Now, at this stage
of the journey,
meditation and connecting to
the cosmic or the universal mind
is what will give
us the illumination
and the revelations
that are needed
to get to the next phase.
What are some other important
correspondences of the star?
Well, her esoteric
title, or secret name,
is the daughter
of the firmament,
and her element is that
of fixed air, which
relates to the astrological
correspondence of Aquarius.
Now, in astrology, Aquarius
rules the 11th house,
which relates to society.
And it's co-ruled by
both Saturn and Uranus.
And they call Aquarius,
the water bearer,
which is the symbol of
innovation, inspiration,
and creative mind.
And the symbology of the
sign, that water bearer,
is seen to be pouring
out a jug of fluid
into a larger mass of water.
But in actuality, this
substance isn't water.
It's electrical energy
and cosmic mind stuff,
and the contents of the
jug represent knowledge.
And so the act of this water
bearer pouring out the liquid
is symbolic of spreading
the knowledge to the world.
Now, soon the awakening of
humanity through our knowledge
of our cosmic connection
will lead us fully
into the Age of Aquarius
that is now upon us.
And this age is
ruled by the star.
Now, some other key words that
are associated with the star
include confidence,
hope, vision, light,
and investigating the depths
of our inner consciousness.
Now, these strengths are the
pure and balanced expression
of the star key.
But when any of this gets into
a distortion or an imbalance,
we fall into the weaknesses in
the shadow side of the star.
So some of the things to watch
out for in terms of weaknesses
include being prone to fantasy,
materialism, and idleness.
Now, how does the star
show up in your life?
Any time, for
example, that you've
been through a dark
period in your life
and then you finally saw
the light, and any time
that you've been filled with
a sense of hope or inspiration
and creativity-- well,
that was the star.
And whenever we feel naturally
radiant and confident,
that's the star
in us shining out.
And if you've ever helped
someone else overcome
their own self-esteem
issues, you
were also being the
star in their life.
And when you practice meditation
and connect with your chakras,
the light of the star
is awakening in you.
And the more you
come to recognize
the star in your
life, the more it
will also connect you to
one of your parallel lives
where the star is the
dominant archetype.
Now, what might
our parallel life
look like under the
archetype of the star?
Well, these people are
quite literally the stars
that we all admire and
look to for inspiration.
The star's influence often
brings fame and recognition
to the people who manifest
under this archetype.
They possess a natural
charisma and a magnetism
that draws people and
opportunities towards them.
They're natural
visionaries, who are also
in touch with their
intuition and feelings.
They're the shining
examples that we
can look to in our world.
Now, by working with the star
and invoking its energies
into your life, you can awaken
your galactic connection
and inner light.
As we continue on with
our hero's journey,
we come to an even greater light
as the full moon now rises.
The amount of light shining upon
us from the celestial bodies
is increasing now.
The star taught us that we
should meditate upon nature,
the cosmos, and our chakras.
And now the moon
is going to suggest
that the most fruitful place to
examine nature is our own body.
It's like a universe of its own.
Now, consider all
the organizing forces
that hold our bodies together
and keep them operating.
This key of the moon shows
us that we can consciously
participate in our own
evolution and speed it up.
The moon rules over subconscious
activities, as well as
the biorhythms of our bodies.
And while the star may
guide us on our way,
the moon also teaches us to
realize that things are not
always what they seem.
There's still some
illusions that
are within the
subconscious that we
must see our way through here.
Now, the numerology of the
moon is ruled by the number 18.
Thus, it has a lot to do with
self-consciousness represented
by the number 1,
or the magician,
as well as finding harmony
between our subconscious
and our animal nature
represented by number 8,
or strength.
In addition, when we
add the 1 plus the 8
we get 9, which
relates to the hermit.
So the moon is the
outer expression,
or the result of themes
established in the hermit.
And likewise, the hermit is
the inner essence of the moon.
Now, recall that
the hermit relates
to matters of
solitary development,
the inner development that
happens when we withdraw
inwards, and we
meditate and connect
with our inner guidance.
So the moon, or key 18, is
the greater light now shining
upon our inner world as a result
of our developmental cycles.
Now, let's explore the imagery
and symbolism of the moon card.
We see a full moon
shining brightly,
which reflects the
light of the sun
into the darkness of the night.
We also see a face in the
moon, which is in profile.
And this indicates that the
moon is a conscious being.
There are flames of
moonlight that also
rain down on the Earth below.
Now, at the bottom of
this card, a crawfish
emerges from a pool of
water onto a dirt path.
And on either side of this path
we see a dog on the left side,
and a wolf on the right,
and they're looking up
and they're howling at the moon.
Now, the path widens
its way of a rolling
fields between and beyond
two tall watchtowers.
And it continues, then,
all the way up to the peak
of the distant mountains.
Now, the pool here
is the same as that
which is shown in the temperance
and in the star cards.
It represents the great
deep of the cosmic mind
stuff, the waters
of which originate
in the robe of the
high priestess.
Now, from this pool,
all organic life
comes forth, which is what the
crawfish emerging represents,
as well as the plants
that also line the pool.
Now, the pool also refers
to the ninth sefira
towards the bottom of the
tree of life known as Yesod,
which means foundation.
And this is also known
as the sphere of the moon
and the sea of the subconscious.
Now, in Tarot the
subconsciousness
emanates from the
high priestess,
whose archetypal and
astrological correspondence
is the moon.
Now, they both also relate
to the moon goddesses, Diana
and Luna.
Now, Diana was also
known as the huntress who
happened to have two
hounds as her companions,
and this is what we
see here in this key.
Now, out of this pool
emerges the dry land
of physical manifestation.
The crawfish climbing
out from the pool
is a symbol of the early
stages of conscious unfoldment.
And the crawfish represents
also this instinctive energy.
It's sort of that old
brain type of energy.
Now, this is about
physical evolution as well.
Now, in these first
developments of conscious life,
the individual seems
to be kind of isolated
from the rest of nature.
Now, the path rising and falling
represents the principles
of vibration and
rhythm, which relate
to the cycles of life
energy as it manifests
through the path of evolution.
This path passes between
the dog and the wolf.
Both are canines, and they
represent the same energy
as the crawfish,
but they're actually
more evolved life forms.
The wolf is a symbol
of nature, and it
remains wild and
untamed, whereas, the dog
is more domesticated as a
result of human adaptation,
and therefore, is a symbol
of what we call the art.
Now, this path also then
passes between the extremes
of wild nature and
human art, and there
is an alchemical saying
actually that says,
nature gives us the wild
body, but art must perfect it.
So the middle way, or
the path of balance,
is between art and nature.
It doesn't go too
far to one side
of being like
artificial invention,
nor does it go too far to
being ungoverned impulses
that just allow nature to rule.
Now, at the beginning,
where the path
is rising up out of
the edge of this pool,
it's bordered with
stones and plants.
And these are symbols
of the mineral kingdom
and the vegetable kingdoms.
Then as it progresses to where
the dog and the wolf are,
this represents
the animal kingdom.
And then the path
continues on, and it
comes to watchtowers, which
mark the boundaries between what
is known and what is unknown--
the unknown being
more the mountains,
and that's why their
color is darker
beyond those watchtowers.
Now, this path then
continues to the beyond,
rising and falling through
blue distances which
represent the plains
of consciousness that
are open to us, especially
during sleep or trance states.
Now, even though
the path progresses
in this wave-like motion, it's
actually continually ascending,
raising the baseline just
as evolution is continually
improving upon creating higher
and higher forms of life.
Now, as we progress
on this path,
the time will come when even
our lowest states will be higher
than our old highs.
Now, under the
watch of the moon,
the path takes us through
an evolutionary process
to the peak of understanding.
So what's the moon
trying to show us here?
Well, its key lesson or
concept is inner organization.
And this is the
point in our journey
where all that we've learned
and gained in consciousness
is now going to be integrated
within the foundation
of our subconscious mind.
This, then, in turn,
causes a restructuring
or a reorganizing
of our bodies in
an atomic and cellular level.
Our magical body is
now becoming anchored
within our physical body.
But we're still not fully
in the daylight yet.
So we still have some
illusions and some shadows
within the subconscious that
also need to be cleared.
We need to bring them
to consciousness.
This will, in turn,
help us have clear sight
on the goal of climbing to
the top of the mountain.
Now, let's explore some other
correspondences of the moon.
Her esoteric title,
or her secret name,
is the ruler of flux and reflux.
Her element is
mutable water, which
relates to the astrological
sign of Pisces, which
rules the moon.
Now, Pisces seeks to stretch
beyond the reality of just
here and now and
search for clues
into past, present,
and future worlds.
Now, this is one of the
reasons why Pisces normally
responds to psychic impressions
more so than cold, hard facts.
They begin to ask deeper,
spiritual questions,
such as, what more
is there to reality
beyond what meets the eye?
And why are these feelings
inside me so strong?
Now, some other key words
that are associated here
with the moon and with Pisces
include passage, choice, truth,
illusion, romance,
dreams, and fantasies,
and it's the time that
relates to twilight.
Now, some of the strengths and
the virtues that the moon helps
to awaken in us include
intuition and imagination,
having more faith,
creating family harmony,
and understanding
animals and nature.
Now, these strengths
and these keys
are related to the balanced and
pure expression of the moon.
But again, if it goes into
any imbalances or distortions
of too much or too little,
it creates the weaknesses
in the shadow side of the moon.
And some of these things
that we need to watch out for
are hallucinations,
escapism, being
imbalanced, societal and
personal intolerances
of old illusions, delusions,
and self deceptions.
How does the moon
show up in your life?
Well, think of the
times when you've
either been or
felt this influence
of the moon in your life.
For example, have you ever felt
yourself caught in deception
or illusion, whether it was
your own or someone else's?
This would have been the
moon's shadow casting upon you.
Or perhaps on your
spiritual journey,
you've reclaimed
authentic aspects
of yourself and your truth.
This would have been the moon's
light shining in your life.
And when you've evolved
enough on your path
of spiritual development,
it's possible
that you've found your body
actually making changes
to adjust to the new level
of light that you hold.
Examples of this could
include differences
in dietary needs and
different metabolism shifts,
natural changes even in
your facial structures,
amazing healings within
your body and so on.
The moon might also show up when
you're having to make choices,
and when you're feeling
pulled between what you think
and what you feel
is the right choice.
And as you become
more aware of this
and you recognize the
moon in your life,
it will then help you to connect
with one of your parallel lives
where the moon is the
dominant archetype.
Now, people manifesting
under the moon archetype
have a great deal of
personal magnetism.
People are drawn to them.
Now, their emotional nature
is like the great, still lake,
whose waters run deep,
because they feel very deeply,
and therefore, they've
learned that they
have to establish trust and
loyalty with people before they
allow them to get
in closer to know
the depths of their nature.
These people are romantic
types, but they can often
get disappointed
by what they feel
was a deception or a betrayal
from others in matters of love.
So they can also be
guarded to a point,
and only the devoted
ones will make it
past their watchtowers
to explore the deeper
terrain of their soul.
Thus, these people
are often drawn
into fields of philosophy,
spirituality, or mysticism,
because of their deep
nature, and as a way
of coming to know the
depths of their own soul.
And by working with the moon
and invoking its energies
into your life, you, too, can
awaken your personal magnetism.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of Tarot, and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for exploring
the mysteries of Tarot
and our
multidimensionality with me
in this episode of
"Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]